README.md, before:

# DevSync

A code snippet manager for organising and storing useful code snippets, boilerplate, and quick reference material. Built with Next.js 16 and PostgreSQL.

## Features

- Save code snippets with syntax highlighting for 21+ programming languages
- Organise snippets into collections for grouping related code
- Tag snippets for easy categorisation and discovery
- Full-text search across all snippets
- User authentication with private snippet storage
- Responsive design that works on desktop and mobile

## Tech Stack

- **Next.js 16** with App Router and Server Actions
- **TypeScript** for type safety
- **Prisma** for database management
- **NextAuth.js v5** for authentication
- **Tailwind CSS** for styling
- **CodeMirror 6** for syntax highlighting
- **PostgreSQL** for data storage

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18 or higher
- PostgreSQL database

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/sgtwickool/devsync.git
cd devsync
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. Set up environment variables:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit `.env` and add your configuration:
```env
DATABASE_URL="your-postgres-connection-string"
AUTH_SECRET="generate-a-random-secret-here"
GITHUB_CLIENT_ID="your-github-client-id"
GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET="your-github-client-secret"
```

Generate a secret key:
```bash
openssl rand -base64 32
```

**Important:** Use the same `AUTH_SECRET` across all devices/environments that share the same database. This ensures JWT sessions work across devices.

### GitHub OAuth Setup

To enable GitHub OAuth authentication:

1. Go to [GitHub Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/developers)
2. Click "New OAuth App"
3. Fill in the application details:
   - **Application name**: DevSync (or your preferred name)
   - **Homepage URL**: `http://localhost:3000` (for development) or your production URL
   - **Authorization callback URL**: `http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/github` (for development) or `https://your-domain.com/api/auth/callback/github` (for production)
4. Click "Register application"
5. Copy the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** to your `.env` file

4. Set up your PostgreSQL database and add the connection string to `.env` as `DATABASE_URL`.

5. Initialise the database:
```bash
npm run db:push
```

6. Start the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser. Create an account to get started.

## Project Structure

```
devsync/
├── app/                    # Next.js app directory
│   ├── (auth)/            # Authentication pages
│   ├── dashboard/         # Main application (protected routes)
│   │   ├── snippets/      # Snippet management pages
│   │   └── collections/   # Collection management pages
│   └── api/               # API routes (NextAuth)
├── components/
│   ├── auth/              # Authentication forms
│   ├── snippets/          # Snippet-related components
│   ├── collections/       # Collection components
│   └── ui/                # Reusable UI components
├── lib/
│   ├── actions/           # Server actions (CRUD operations)
│   ├── utils/             # Utility functions
│   ├── constants/         # Shared constants
│   └── types/             # TypeScript type definitions
└── prisma/
    └── schema.prisma      # Database schema
```

The codebase follows Next.js 16 conventions: server components by default, client components for interactivity. Server actions handle database operations.

## Development

### Available Commands

```bash
npm run dev          # Start development server
npm run build        # Build for production
npm run db:push      # Push schema changes to database
npm run db:studio    # Open Prisma Studio (database GUI)
```

### Making Schema Changes

The project uses Prisma for database management. To modify the schema:

1. Edit `prisma/schema.prisma`
2. Run `npm run db:push` to apply changes
3. Prisma client will auto-regenerate

For production migrations, consider using `prisma migrate` instead of `db:push`.

## Deployment

### Vercel

1. Push your code to GitHub
2. Import the project in Vercel
3. Add environment variables:
   - `DATABASE_URL`
   - `AUTH_SECRET`
4. Deploy

Vercel will automatically deploy on every push to your main branch.

### Production Environment Variables

Set these in your hosting platform:

```env
DATABASE_URL="your-production-database-url"
AUTH_SECRET="use-a-different-secret-in-production"
GITHUB_CLIENT_ID="your-github-client-id"
GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET="your-github-client-secret"
```

**Note:** Make sure to update your GitHub OAuth app's callback URL to match your production domain.

## Current Features

- User authentication (email/password and GitHub OAuth)
- Create, edit, and delete snippets
- Syntax highlighting for 21+ languages
- Collections for organising snippets
- Tags for categorisation
- Search functionality
- Responsive design

## Roadmap

- Public snippet sharing
- Team workspaces
- Dark mode
- Export snippets (markdown, PDF)
- VS Code extension
- API access

## Contributing

Issues and pull requests are welcome. Contributions that improve the codebase or add useful features are appreciated.

## License

MIT License - feel free to use this project for learning or building your own tools.

## Learning Resources

This project demonstrates:
- Server and client components in Next.js
- Server actions for mutations
- Authentication with NextAuth
- Database relationships with Prisma
- Form handling and validation
- Responsive UI with Tailwind CSS

See `GUIDE.md` for more detailed architecture notes.

Commit message:

Add Resend email service integration for organization invitations

README.md, after:

# DevSync

A code snippet manager for organising and storing useful code snippets, boilerplate, and quick reference material. Built with Next.js 16 and PostgreSQL.

## Features

- Save code snippets with syntax highlighting for 21+ programming languages
- Organise snippets into collections for grouping related code
- Tag snippets for easy categorisation and discovery
- Full-text search across all snippets
- User authentication with private snippet storage
- Responsive design that works on desktop and mobile

## Tech Stack

- **Next.js 16** with App Router and Server Actions
- **TypeScript** for type safety
- **Prisma** for database management
- **NextAuth.js v5** for authentication
- **Tailwind CSS** for styling
- **CodeMirror 6** for syntax highlighting
- **PostgreSQL** for data storage

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18 or higher
- PostgreSQL database

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/sgtwickool/devsync.git
cd devsync
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. Set up environment variables:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit `.env` and add your configuration:
```env
DATABASE_URL="your-postgres-connection-string"
AUTH_SECRET="generate-a-random-secret-here"
GITHUB_CLIENT_ID="your-github-client-id"
GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET="your-github-client-secret"

# Email Configuration (for organization invitations)
RESEND_API_KEY="your-resend-api-key"
EMAIL_FROM="noreply@yourdomain.com"
EMAIL_FROM_NAME="DevSync"
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL="http://localhost:3000"
EMAIL_ENABLED="true"  # Set to "true" to enable emails in development
```

Generate a secret key:
```bash
openssl rand -base64 32
```

**Important:** Use the same `AUTH_SECRET` across all devices/environments that share the same database. This ensures JWT sessions work across devices.

### GitHub OAuth Setup

To enable GitHub OAuth authentication:

1. Go to [GitHub Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/developers)
2. Click "New OAuth App"
3. Fill in the application details:
   - **Application name**: DevSync (or your preferred name)
   - **Homepage URL**: `http://localhost:3000` (for development) or your production URL
   - **Authorization callback URL**: `http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/github` (for development) or `https://your-domain.com/api/auth/callback/github` (for production)
4. Click "Register application"
5. Copy the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** to your `.env` file

### Email Setup (Optional but Recommended)

To enable email invitations for organizations:

1. Sign up for a free account at [Resend](https://resend.com) (100 emails/day free tier)
2. Create an API key in the Resend dashboard
3. Add your API key to `.env` as `RESEND_API_KEY`
4. Configure your sender email:
   - `EMAIL_FROM`: The email address to send from (e.g., `noreply@yourdomain.com`)
   - `EMAIL_FROM_NAME`: Display name for emails (e.g., `DevSync`)
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL`: Your app's URL (e.g., `http://localhost:3000` for dev, or your production URL)
5. Set `EMAIL_ENABLED="true"` to enable emails in development (emails are always enabled in production)

**Note:** If email is not configured, invitations will still be created and accessible via direct link, but no email will be sent.

6. Set up your PostgreSQL database and add the connection string to `.env` as `DATABASE_URL`.

5. Initialise the database:
```bash
npm run db:push
```

6. Start the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser. Create an account to get started.

## Project Structure

```
devsync/
├── app/                    # Next.js app directory
│   ├── (auth)/            # Authentication pages
│   ├── dashboard/         # Main application (protected routes)
│   │   ├── snippets/      # Snippet management pages
│   │   └── collections/   # Collection management pages
│   └── api/               # API routes (NextAuth)
├── components/
│   ├── auth/              # Authentication forms
│   ├── snippets/          # Snippet-related components
│   ├── collections/       # Collection components
│   └── ui/                # Reusable UI components
├── lib/
│   ├── actions/           # Server actions (CRUD operations)
│   ├── utils/             # Utility functions
│   ├── constants/         # Shared constants
│   └── types/             # TypeScript type definitions
└── prisma/
    └── schema.prisma      # Database schema
```

The codebase follows Next.js 16 conventions: server components by default, client components for interactivity. Server actions handle database operations.

## Development

### Available Commands

```bash
npm run dev          # Start development server
npm run build        # Build for production
npm run db:push      # Push schema changes to database
npm run db:studio    # Open Prisma Studio (database GUI)
```

### Making Schema Changes

The project uses Prisma for database management. To modify the schema:

1. Edit `prisma/schema.prisma`
2. Run `npm run db:push` to apply changes
3. Prisma client will auto-regenerate

For production migrations, consider using `prisma migrate` instead of `db:push`.

## Deployment

### Vercel

1. Push your code to GitHub
2. Import the project in Vercel
3. Add environment variables:
   - `DATABASE_URL`
   - `AUTH_SECRET`
4. Deploy

Vercel will automatically deploy on every push to your main branch.

### Production Environment Variables

Set these in your hosting platform:

```env
DATABASE_URL="your-production-database-url"
AUTH_SECRET="use-a-different-secret-in-production"
GITHUB_CLIENT_ID="your-github-client-id"
GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET="your-github-client-secret"
```

**Note:** Make sure to update your GitHub OAuth app's callback URL to match your production domain.

## Current Features

- User authentication (email/password and GitHub OAuth)
- Create, edit, and delete snippets
- Syntax highlighting for 21+ languages
- Collections for organising snippets
- Tags for categorisation
- Search functionality
- Responsive design

## Roadmap

- Public snippet sharing
- Team workspaces
- Dark mode
- Export snippets (markdown, PDF)
- VS Code extension
- API access

## Contributing

Issues and pull requests are welcome. Contributions that improve the codebase or add useful features are appreciated.

## License

MIT License - feel free to use this project for learning or building your own tools.

## Learning Resources

This project demonstrates:
- Server and client components in Next.js
- Server actions for mutations
- Authentication with NextAuth
- Database relationships with Prisma
- Form handling and validation
- Responsive UI with Tailwind CSS

See `GUIDE.md` for more detailed architecture notes.
